### The Competition

Products similar to our application include Piazza, Blackboard, Kahoot and My Attendance Tracker.

* <https://piazza.com>
* <http://www.blackboard.com>
* <https://kahoot.it>
* <https://www.myattendancetracker.com>

### What makes our product **DIFFERENT**?

Just like the above products, our product centers around **teachers creating and hosting a class** on the application and having **students join and participate in it**.

Unlike the other products, **the core feature of our application is attendance tracking** in a manner similar to how one would register for a Kahoot quiz. On each day of class a specific password will be given out by the teacher (or randomly generated by the application) which the students can use to mark their attendance. 

Another unique aspect of our product is its **focus on statistics**, which will be geared towards helping teachers understand their students behaviour and performance and helping students manage their time and improve their performance. 

Another unique feature of our app will be the **ability for students to give feedback after every lecture** through the application. This will **help teachers learn from each lecture and tailor future lectures** towards their particular group of students.

# Competitor's Mistakes

We believe each of the competitors were too focused on a specific idea for their product. For example, (insert specific product here) ability to share news or class deliverables, discussion, and homework, which as a result prevented this feature to be implemented.  

An issue for the competitors would be overloading there software with more tools that may not fit well with there overall idea. As a result, their product would become cluttered and hard for users to navigate. For them to implement this idea, they would have to re build there data structures, software/web designs and accommodate this feature without creating a new learning curve, which could upset its user base.


# Conclusion

Overall, this app is designed for **students and teachers from high school and above**. 

It focuses on giving teachers the ability to **automate attendance tracking**, and providing both students and teachers feedback on their performance whether it be through the application's **statistics** or **lecture feedback feature**. 

By using this app, we want **teachers to improve their teaching and students to improve their learning**.
